# An Analysis of Kickstarter Campaigns
## This project works with data on several different campaigns both nationally and internationally in order to pull data to provide Louis information on how her play did relative to others based on when plays were launched, and what their funding goals were. 
### The purpose of this analysis is to gain insight into Louis' own play. We used the data we have on other campaigns to compare how Louis did in relation to them when comparing launch dates and funding goals. This Project is done to to show the correlation between successful, failed, and canceled plays with their funding goals and launch dates.
## Analysis and Challenges
### I performed this analysis of plays based on launch dates and funding goals through a series of steps. To analyze campaigns by launch date, I started with my Kickstarter worksheet which has all my starting data on it. I created a new column to the right and formulated the cells in this column to pull the year from the Date Cretaed Conversion Column. This allowed me to retrieve information on when each campaign was launched- by year. I then created a pivot table using all my data on the "Kickstarter" spreadsheet and moved that over to a new spreadsheet. I created my table to show outcomes in the columns (filtering out "live") and the launch dates by month in the rows. I added filters to my pivot table that would allow me to narrow down parent category and years. I used these filters to show only the parent category "theater." I was able to then create a line chart to visualize the data I gathered on the relationship between outcomes and launch months for theater campaigns.
- Please see the first embedded image for visualization of my analysis. The chart shows the number of successful, failed, or canceled projects by month. The months are on the x axis while the outcomes for each month are shows on the y axis. 
## Embed first image
! [Launch Outcomes](resources/Theater_Outcomes_vs_Launch.png)

### To analyze campaigns by funding goals I started by creating a new worksheet in my Kickstarter spreadsheet file. I added headers to this new worksheet that would show me the number and percentages of campaigns that were either successful, failures, or canceled based on their funding goal amounts. Under the "Goal" column is a series of ranges that each campaign could potentially fall under. However, since I only wanted to see plays, and only those plays that would fit under teh header of each column, I used the COUNTIFS formula to extract only the data I needed for my purposes. The total projects column added up all the number of successful, failed, and canceled. I was able to use the total to help me find percentages for each outcome. Using the results of this analysis I created a visual to help explain my findings. 
- Please see the second embed image for a line chart that shows funding goal ranges on the x axis and the percentage of whether they were sucessful or failures on the y axis. 
 - Note that there are only 2 lines, since no canceled play campaigns exist. 
## Embed second image
! [Outcomes_vs_Goals](resources/Outcomes_vs_Goals.png)
### A challenge I faced when doing this analysis had to do with my COUNTIFS formula when trying to search for outcomes based on ranges. I was able to understand how to use the formula when dealing with only a greater than range or only a less than range, but I was having issues using with the more complicated ranges. Although I was able to undestand conceptually what I needed to find, I was unsure how to actually create the formula to do so. I did look at the video the "Hint" section shows me, but was still unsure.  I was initially thinking the second part of the range had to be included in the formula immediately after the first part, but I learned of a way around that I found simpler instead. I simply copied the formula from the cell above- which was only dealing with a range of less than 1000- twice and fixed it to say greater than 1000 the first time and then to say less than 4999 the second time. I repeated this step for the remaining cells below- tweaking the ranges based on the "Goals" column.   
## Results
- The Theater Outcomes by Launch Date worksheet shows us that campaigns related under the theater that were successful were higher in the months of May and June than any other months. The data also shows us, though, that failed campaigns were also in the higher range during these two months. It seems like overall these months were popular launch dates. The difference between failed and successful is still higher in May and June than other months, which shows us that theater campaigns launched in these two months tend to generally tend to be successful.   
- The Outcomes Based on Goals Data and Chart shows us for plays asking for over 50000 in funding, the outcome is more likely to be failure than for any play asking for less money. It seems like generally, the trend for failure is upwards as goal demands increase- with exception to a few ranges. Similarly, the trend for successful play campaigns is downwards as goal funding demands decrease- with exception to a few ranges. 
- Please note that there are limitations to the datasets included in this analysis. The analysis based on goals does not show how many backers were present. It also does not show the average amount each backer pledged. This would play a role in understanding better the ranges that did not follow the trends on the Outcomes Based on Goal line chart. Other limits include human error when reporting these outcomes, goal funding amounts, etc. Data is collected by people, and can be inaccurate at times. The data presented in this analysis also does not include outside factors other than launch dates and funding goals. There can be reasons other than the the launch date and funding goal that are impacting the outcomes moreso than these are. There could be something else going on during those launch dates that does not have to do with months in particular, but rather a different variable. 
- Other tables and graphs that could also help with this analysis could ones that show the amount of backers for failed and successful campaigns. Another could be the a graph showing the general trend of play campaigns in the country Louis is in- and whether or not the trend has been leaning towards successful or failures over the years. This could also help Louis put things in perspective when seeing how her play has done in comparison to other plays launched in other years. 
